you are standing in the eye of the storm
the pressure is building and if you look
at the data it starts to make sense but
only when we piece it together and
that's what we'll do here today I'm
going to talk about what's been
happening recently in China how that
affects you we're going to look at the S
P 500 I want to talk about real estate
and basically how all of these things
are connected and what you can do about
it that's right all here in today's
video my name is David contreri what I
do at this channel is I bring you all
the most relevant information I take
away all that Financial Wizardry and
simply make it easy for you to digest so
if you appreciate this video hit that
thumbs up and we will talk about of
course our friends the central Bankers
here we have it Jackson Hole post
inflation challenges Vex the central
Bankers why is that the case well they
want to print a lot of money they want
to reduce interest rates and they want
to somehow not create inflation it's as
if they are completely oblivious to
their actions but of course that's only
the surface level if we look at what
they do it is pretty clear and pretty
obvious they are intentionally trying to
create inflation and will not allow
deflation to occur and so what's
happening here is they're monitoring all
this data and they're saying to
themselves at what point do we stop and
reverse course that's what the market is
looking at and that's what investors are
looking for I pay attention to all of
the conference calls all of the
different you know earnings calls
everything that comes through and I'm
looking at this information to get a
sign of what's coming and this is the
only thing the absolute only thing that
markets are caring about right now here
uh in this time of 2023 2024 could be a
very different world I'm going to show
you how the impact of what happens in
China makes its way to the United States
to Canada to the UK and so on look at
this you'll see this Jeremy Grantham
says that the FED is kidding itself on
avoiding a recession fed almost
guaranteed to be wrong and why is that
the case he makes it pretty clear and I
actually do agree with this that they've
never been right they've literally never
been right about a recession now they
are there to protect just like the
president or prime minister would of a
country they're never gonna say oh yes
we think a recession is coming we think
our economy is doing bad they're always
going to be the cheerleader and for
obvious reasons this though it's
important to note simply because the
circumstances that we're dealing with
right now are worse than what we have
seen historically I want to note a few
things and that is number one you gotta
understand people are feeling the
pressure I hear from people every single
day every single day they're telling me
I'm in this country I'm in that state
I'm in this province I'm in this city
and they're feeling the pressure at the
same time companies are raising their
prices they're not not giving up on that
they are going to increase until they
are over the edge and maybe they won't
even bring them back down companies are
increasing their prices at the end of
this video I'm going to show you several
examples of how this basically stretches
in every single Direction and then we
have China that currently has a problem
and now the economy around the world is
impacted by this I told you that you've
got to watch what happens in China and
look what occurs today I have been
talking about this a while and now here
we are I've got the information for you
as well when it relates to Jeremy
Grantham don't take his word for it I
don't think any of these people and in
fact mine as well you you don't think
the word for you simply look at the
information and then you verify it for
yourself that's all that's all we got to
do if you look at in this particular
instance U.S stocks you could see that
September does not look to be a strong
month historically does that mean I
would trade based on that information
does that mean I would sell everything
and then come back in October no that's
not what that means it just shows us
that historically we have certain data
that could explain certain things and
when on top of that you've got the debt
on top of that you've got like AI stocks
that have pulled the market up keeping
it alive like a marionette this is
something that we should be paying
attention to and of course valuations
are certainly stretched here today these
companies are being pushed up through
all the easy monetary policy but now we
started to dry that up through other
means we have added liquidity through
this is something to talk about with the
mentorship group
um but also you know if you look right
here money mirror method and I'll tell
you about that money mirror method if
you haven't heard it before at the end
of this video I wanted to show you a few
things about what's happening in the
economy because this is all
interconnected if the company these are
not doing well they can hire people and
if they are doing very well they have to
hire a lot of people so this has a
direct impact and what about all the
commercial real estate big news as well
right well this is related to Canada but
isn't this crazy okay so in Canada a
little different situation with how
mortgages worked in the United States
but the point is you look at a variable
interest mortgage rate above seven
percent same like in the US right but
for fixed
um they were paying before like in the
case of HSBC in some other cases
0.99 before
0.99 others were like let's say 1.99 so
they were super low now they're seven
percent look at this the situation has
also brought the return of mortgages
that are amortized for more than 35
years there are examples of 40 years
40-year mortgage at the start of last
year those didn't exist and rbc's
Canadian mortgage book and now such
loans represent a 23 of their entire
portfolio do you not see the flashing
warning signs when 23 of your portfolio
those based on these mortgages to be
paid off over a 35-year period and that
just to be clear means that in the next
time that they have to go because in
Canada Works different as I said three
to five years they're going to have to
renegotiate that mortgage refinance that
mortgage not like in the US where you
can pay that off over the 30. it's not
that doesn't work like that so what
happens in the next two years what
happens in the next year as they have to
refinance our interest rate is going to
be higher maybe they had it at that two
percent now they're coming due and uh oh
mortgage rates are seven percent now I'm
screwed they've got serious problems and
they can't be dealt with if your
mortgage rate doubled what's going to
happen to your payment it's going to be
unpayable unpayable for most people and
so this is where we are at today right
now so that's mortgages that's Canada
but it applies to so many other places
so what do you think where are the rich
and young people moving to what are they
doing are they sitting still or are they
taking it as it is and they're simply
going off I think you get the point here
yes in fact a lot of them are moving
Florida and Texas gain the most high
young uh young High earners while New
York and California lost the most I
really don't think that's a surprise to
anybody I get that but I just wanted to
make that clear that when you have
prices that go too high when you have
inflation that starts to pick up
everywhere when people are feeling the
burn well what do they do they push
themselves to the edge what are
companies doing I'm going to show you
some examples of that right now
you've heard of quiet quitting now
companies are quiet cutting check this
out layoffs are down but employers are
still finding ways to cut jobs isn't
this interesting check it out workers
are waking up to emails and team meeting
requests with a jarring message they
aren't fired but their jobs are gone I
can't I don't want to laugh at this but
it's so funny uh yeah you're not fired
you just remember you used to work here
like this was your seat it's not not
anymore you're yeah you're not there
anymore
so what's happening is basically they're
saying uh we don't need that position
anymore uh but we've got these positions
I've talked to people before that work
uh for the you know working for the city
basically and they start to Outsource
the department so they say you are a
city worker you're a government employee
you still get your employment but you
don't have a job and so you can pick
from these jobs okay we got the
nighttime shift we've got the shift work
uh or we got you know the really dirty
job that nobody wants
um I don't want that I want my old job I
was working there oh I'm sorry job's
gone so that's what companies are doing
right now
knowing that people might say I don't
want I don't want to work as the janitor
I was working as the you know in this in
the c-suite I was good oh no janitor uh
forget it I'm out and so they can kind
of push people out you know they do like
force them out in a sense okay a lot of
the big companies what they do is they
give them an ultimatum just say that
they know they're going to quit or they
just package them out anyway they kind
of it's kind of a you know two-sides
look we want to get rid of you but
here's the deal here's the package just
get on out that's happening right now
today that shows us the sense of what's
happening in the economy and the job
situation it is not as strong as they
make it seem
what about this China's worsening
economic slowdown is Rippling across the
globe Asian economies are taking the
biggest hit to trade so far falling
prices in China may help to curb Global
inflation that would be a good sign if
that was the case but I'm about to tell
you that isn't happening at this point
some for some things anyway
China's economy was meant to drive a
third of global economic growth this
year so it's dramatic slowdown in recent
months is sounding alarm Bells across
the world policy makers are bracing for
a hit to their economies as China's
Imports of everything from construction
materials to electronics slide
caterpillar says Chinese demand for
machines used on building sites is worse
than previously thought what do you
think what do you think obviously
they've got the whole problem people
think oh yeah that's a good thing or
yeah who cares about China
you're talking about companies that are
from the US companies that employ people
in the U.S they are directly or
indirectly doing business with China if
they're hurting you're hurting let me
tell you this is what's going on right
now today do not shy away from this
information Global Investors have
already pulled more than 10 billion
dollars from China stock markets with
most of the selling in Blue Chips
Goldman Sachs Morgan Stanley have cut
their targets for Chinese equities with
the former also warning of spillover
risks to the region in the short term as
you're seeing this video actually stocks
had gone up uh in China but anyway
that's Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
and why is that the case I'll show you
in a second China's trade is critically
important for the world it's the top
export destination for almost 40
economies just think about that it's
unbelievable unbelievable okay so
obviously you know the drill you got
problems inside of China economy is
slowing down they're not importing
because they're not building as much as
they did before and that hurts all of
these different countries to a one
degree or another depends how influenced
they are by it so pay attention closely
this is a global problem all at the same
time where they're just getting away
they got their finger on the trigger of
that printing press ready to set your
dollars on fire that's what's gonna
happen looking at this this basically
just saying that
um right now at this time they have done
a lot of different stimulus measures
inside of China as a result of that it's
having some effect for the stimulative
effect and the stock market has risen as
a result of that that's all this says
okay oh I need to tell you about
inflation I'm going to move really
really fast through this stick with me
okay I want to show you different
companies what about this
adjusting our Spotify Premium prices I
would love to adjust my bank account
higher wouldn't you I would just love to
adjust it okay but in this case here
what they've done is increase their
prices Spotify Premium Google is raising
the prices of YouTube premium to 13.99 a
month oil and food prices are rising and
so are wages inflation isn't beaten yet
so they can show us that inflation goes
down but let's be honest it's not all
right then we have this company's push
prices higher protecting profits but
adding to inflation corporate profits
have been bolstered by higher prices
even as some of the cost of doing
business have fallen in recent months
absolutely there's no question about it
I could tell you though warehousing is
more expensive that that's in both U.S
and in China warehousing employee costs
have certainly gone up material costs
have gone up as well that's my
experience okay so those three things do
have an impact on the bottom line of the
price but what's going on it doesn't
matter of the situation they're just
going to keep increasing prices all
different types of businesses are doing
the same don't sit idle don't just let
it happen I'm gonna tell you what you've
got to do okay very important stuff I've
got it written down for you here I
wanted to make sure I hit all these
points number one dig yourself out of
your mess that's the number one thing
don't worry about this and that and
going on Twitter and going on Facebook
and all these different things dig
yourself out of your mess whether that
is something because you know the bad
job that you're in is not paying enough
or you just hate it or whatever get
yourself into a better situation there
get that established get the payments
coming in number two is debt get your
debt paid off as best you can there were
different ways to do this you could use
a balanced credit card to do that trans
transfer balance you can you know borrow
money where you have to maybe a family
member is willing to do that if they
understand your plan write your plan
down on a paper make sure that it's
understood number two okay spend time
building assets or preparedness you're
you're investing when you do that okay
you're you know you build a garden in
the backyard that's preparedness that's
an investment not just because the doll
you know the seed that you bought and
you planted it in and you know that's
what I'm talking about I am talking
about actually investing into your
future being able to be prepared you
don't you invest in Insurance hoping to
never use it that's the way it works
right number three align yourself with
the right people how do you find the
right people depends on your
circumstances and what you're trying to
do all online you can do it in person
I've got the Discord group that has 1200
people in it when you go onto the
Discord group as you can see right here
you're gonna get all kinds of tips
including money mirror method that is
just one thing join that at the link in
the description hit that link it's
totally free of course there's tips or
strategies and you can reach out to me
directly and then I want to highlight
the comments of the day thank you very
much as always Nikki cax everyone told
me I was crazy for aggressively paying
down my student loans during the
moratorium because they were going to be
forgiven I knew if I didn't pay them off
I would never be able to every time I
managed to get a new job that pays more
everything else goes up drastically and
makes it hard to get ahead I don't
regret paying them off and I love that I
want to thank you for your comment thank
you for all your comments of course but
this is the situation we are in we need
to do our best to pay down that debt
we're going to accelerate our income as
best as possible I am working on some
programs in fact I'm even thinking about
started to work on it already
the introductions of the children's
books so that we can educate the
children's right from the ground all the
way up so we're going to create these
strategies uh and kind of sink that in
okay into people's minds hopefully doing
my best to do what I can you got to do
what you can align yourself with the
right people join the Discord I'll see
you there